**RailsBridge Glossary**

**Text editor:** Used to write your programs

**Terminal / Code interpreter:**Used to run your programs

**String:** Text only, no calculations, use quotes

**Integer:** Numbers 1, 2, 3

**Floating point numbers:**1.5, 0.5 (not precise, never use for monetary
values)

**Array:**Big container [1, "doc", 2.5]

**Functions:** Code that can be re-used; if a formula has to change, you
only need to

change it in one place

**Variables:** Name for something in your program (x = 5, 1+x=6) where x
is the variable; no quotes used so to be identified as a variable; gives
you a way to work with things, put items in and take items out while you
can keep referring to one function (cell) to re-use (Tip: use
explanatory, descriptive names)

**Single = :** Assignment; whatever you guess, will be treated as true
(Name="Rory")

**Boolean == :** Data type with only 2 possible values: True or False;
Is name="Rory"? True

**Indents and whitespace:** used for grouping code together and simplify
readability; only use spaces, don’t tab

**Grouping:** Ruby uses do … end to group, PHP uses {to group}, Python
uses white spaces to indicate which blocks of code belongs together

**Using a capital:** Indicates a constant; you don't intend to ever
change that

**Variable (camel casing):** guessesTaken

**Variable (snake casing):** guesses\_taken

**Loop:** While \<something is true, do this\>; If \<something becomes
not true\> == break the loop / stop

**RubyGem:** A package manager for the Ruby programming language that
provides a standard format for distributing Ruby programs and
[libraries](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_(computing)) (in a
self-contained format called a "gem"), a tool designed to easily manage
the installation of gems and a server for distributing them

**Class**

**Instance**

\

\

**Common Rails Command Lines**

\

**rails new*****NameApp*****:** Creates a new Rails application with the
entire Rails directory structure to run your application

**rails server***OR***rails s:** Launches a small web server named
WEBrick that you will use any time you want to access your application
through a web browser

**rails generate*****OR*****rails g:** Uses templates to create a bunch
of directories and files in your application

**rails generate scaffold:** Creates a full set of model, database
migration for that model, controller to manipulate it, views to view and
manipulate the data and a test suite for each of the above.

**rake:** Rake is ‘Ruby Make’, used to build up a list of tasks.

**rails console*****OR*****rails c:** Lets you interact with your Rails
application from the command line, useful for testing out quick ideas
with code and changing data server-side without touching the website

**rails console --sandbox:** If you wish to test out some code without
changing any data

**rails dbconsole*****OR*****rails db**: Used to figure out which
database you're using and drops you into whichever command line
interface you would use with. It supports MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite and
SQLite3

**rails destroy*****OR*****rails d:** Does the opposite of generate. It
will figure out what generate did and undo it

**-h or --help:** Can be run with all commands to list more information

**about**

**assets**

**db**

**doc**

**notes**

**routes**

**test**

**tmp**

\

\

**Basic Command Lines**

\

**ls:** List all directories you can cd into from where you are

**cd:** Changes to home directory (cd \~)

**cd ..:** Go up one directory

**cd ../../:** Go up 2 levels / multiple levels

**cd directory/:** Go into the specified directory

**\#:**Comments, won’t run as a command

**ctrl+c:** Shut down server

**ifconfig:** Gets server IP

**import random:** Go fetch the code for me, I want to do something with
it

**pwd:** Present working directory

**cp:** Copy

**q:** Quit

**Tild \~:**Shortcut for your home directory

**Git**

**Heroku**

**git remote add:** Telling git on your hard drive, I’m going to add
another copy of this repo

**CSS:**Cascading style sheets

**application.css:**Look and feel

\

